

ChatGPT
=======
culture arises in place and is conditioned by place, in ways that can be surfaced, compared, and questioned.

Cultural landscapes are not exceptional or heritage-designated places; they are the normal condition of inhabited space.

a chorologic project that includes culture without explaining it away

Computation changed what “record” means [KG: what is the evidence we can use to characterize a place formally such that global comparisons can be made, so that relations between kinds of places and what happens or has happened there can be computed over? this has to include written material, for it is the only evidence we have of humans' experience of place.]

EDOP explores whether cultural descriptors developed in anthropology and history can be meaningfully co-presented with environmental signatures, in a way that preserves uncertainty and avoids causal claims.

“Environment and culture co-occur in patterned ways that can be surfaced for comparative inquiry.”

HRAF: University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – Stephanie Love

SCCS: Murdock GP & White DR. 1969. Standard Cross-Cultural Sample. Ethnology. 9:329–369.

D-PLACE: Kathryn R. Kirby, Russell D. Gray, Simon J. Greenhill, Fiona M. Jordan, Stephanie Gomes-Ng, Hans-Jörg Bibiko, Damián E. Blasi, Carlos A. Botero, Claire Bowern, Carol R. Ember, Dan Leehr, Bobbi S. Low, Joe McCarter, William Divale, and Michael C. Gavin. (2016). D-PLACE: A Global Database of Cultural, Linguistic and Environmental Diversity. PLoS ONE, 11(7): e0158391. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0158391.

Sauer
=====
"An ordered presentation of the landscapes of the earth is a formidable undertaking."

"The content of landscape is found therefore in the physical qualities of area that are significant to man and in the forms of his use of the area, in facts of physical background and facts of human culture."

-- Carl Sauer in Morphology of Landscape (1925).



Sauer, Morphology

on the chorological approach:
"...area or landscape is the field of Geography, because it is a naively given important section of reality, not a sophisticated thesis. Geography assumes the responsibility for the study of areas because there exists a common curiosity about that subject."
- p. 316

"The objects which exist together in the landscape exist in relation."
- p. 321

"The cultural landscape is the geographic area in the final meaning (Chore). Its forms are all the works of man that characterize the landscape. Under this definition we are not concerned in geography with the energy, customs, or beliefs of man but with man’s record upon the landscape."

